Digital io (#7)
hostmobility/documentation: docs/interfaces/mx4/digital_io.md

---

> title:  Mx4 Digital I/O

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title:  MX-4 Digital I/O
```

tags:
    - T30
    - T30 FR
    - MX-4
    - CT
    - CT GL
    - C61
---
## Overview 

> Diffrent platform support diffrent amount of this list check the technical documentation to find the supported IOs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different platform support different parts of this list. Please consult the technical specification to find the supported IOs.
```

> Different platform support different parts of this list. Please consult the technical specification to find the supported IOs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different parts of this list are available depending on the platform. Please consult the technical specification to find the supported IOs.
```

> ### List of IO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### List of IOs
```

- digital-out-1-source
- digital-out-2-source
- digital-out-3-source
- digital-out-4-source
- digital-out-5-source
- digital-out-6-sink 
- digital-out-7-sink 
- digital-out-1-sink 
- digital-out-2-sink 
- digital-out-3-sink 
- digital-out-4-sink 
- digital-out-5-sink 
- digital-out-6-source
- digital-out-7-source
- digital-out-1

>     - depricated with digital out source 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - deprecated with digital out source 1
```

- digital-out-2

>     - depricated with digital out source 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - deprecated with digital out source 2
```

- digital-out-3

>     - depricated with digital out source 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - deprecated with digital out source 3
```

- digital-out-4

>     - depricated with digital out source 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - deprecated with digital out source 4
```

- digital-out-5 / 4-20

>     - depricated with digital out source 5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - deprecated with digital out source 5
```

- digital-out-6

>     - depricated with digital out sink 6

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - deprecated with digital out sink 6
```

- digital-in-1 / sc
- digital-in-2 / sc
- digital-in-3 / sc
- digital-in-4 / sc
- digital-in-5 / sc
- digital-in-6
- digital-in-7
- digital-in-8
- digital-out-7
    - depricated with digital out sink 7
- digital-out-8
    - depricated with digital out source 7
- digital-out-en 
    - Only CT and CT GL

### Set Digital out 
```bash
gpioset $(gpiofind digital-out-1)=1
```

### Set Digital in
```bash

> gpioget $(gpiofind digital-in-1)

Reviewer: Set is not get :-)

Author: changed to read

```

## Systems without gpiolib

> **Note:** for bsp release 1.6(1.5) and older

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** This is for BSP releases 1.6/1.5 and older
```

For digital I/O we use the standard linux framework.

See [Linux Kernel GPIO documentation](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/gpio/)

> **Note:** GPIO numbers can differ on different MX-4 platforms. This is just an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** GPIO numbers can differ depending on the exact MX-4 platform. This is just an example.
```

```bash
root@mx4-t30-29009999:~# cat /sys/kernel/debug/gpio | grep -i digital
GPIOs 344-383, spi/spi0.0, mx4_digitals:
 gpio-344 (digital-out-1       ) out lo
 gpio-345 (digital-out-2       ) out lo
 gpio-346 (digital-out-3       ) out lo
 gpio-347 (digital-out-4       ) out lo
 gpio-348 (digital-out-5 / 4-20) out lo
 gpio-349 (digital-out-6       ) out lo
 gpio-356 (digital-in-1 / sc   ) in  hi
 gpio-357 (digital-in-2 / sc   ) in  hi
 gpio-358 (digital-in-3 / sc   ) in  hi
 gpio-359 (digital-in-4 / sc   ) in  hi
 gpio-360 (digital-in-5 / sc   ) in  lo
 gpio-361 (digital-in-6        ) in  lo
 gpio-380 (digital-in-7        ) in  lo
 gpio-381 (digital-in-8        ) in  lo
 gpio-382 (digital-out-7       ) out lo
 gpio-383 (digital-out-8       ) out lo
```

`sc digital out` are inputs indicating short for each output. If a short is detected it goes HIGH (1).

> #### Read gpio value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Read GPIO value
```

```bash
# Example reading status from Digital-In-2. 0 = LOW, 1 = HIGH
root@mx4-gtt:~# cat /sys/class/gpio/gpio23/value
0
```

> #### Write gpio value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Write GPIO value
```

```bash
# Example setting Digital-Out-1 high
root@mx4-gtt:~# echo 1 > /sys/class/gpio/gpio238/value
```

#### Set input as interrupt

> All digital inputs can generate an "event" on a specific change. The changes are "rising", "falling" or "both"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each digital input can trigger an event on a specific change. The changes are **rising**, **falling** or **both**.
```

```bash
# Trigger an event on rising edge.
root@mx4-gtt:~# echo rising > /sys/class/gpio/gpio23/edge
```

> It is also possible to set falling or both to edge file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also possible to set **falling** or **both** to `edge` file.
```

> To listen for event you need to run `poll(2) <http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/poll.2.html>`_ on the "value" file of that specific input. See `example application <https://github.com/hostmobility/file-poll>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To listen for events you need to run `poll(2) <http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/poll.2.html>`_ on the value file of that specific input. See `example application <https://github.com/hostmobility/file-poll>`_
```
```suggestion
To listen for event you need to run `poll(2) <http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/poll.2.html>`_ on the `value` file of the specific input. See `example application <https://github.com/hostmobility/file-poll>`_
```

> To listen for events you need to run `poll(2) <http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/poll.2.html>`_ on the value file of that specific input. See `example application <https://github.com/hostmobility/file-poll>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To listen for events you need to run `poll(2) <http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/poll.2.html>` on the value file of that specific input. See `example application <https://github.com/hostmobility/file-poll>`.
```

> #### Example app listening for GPIO events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Example app listening for GPIO events
```
